5 Dysfunctions Part 1: The Fable
    A fictional company used to be the talk-of-the-town and contains allstar workers, but has been lackluster. The Company commander-in-chief, Jeff was asked to step down
    because of an abysmal performance recently, he is replaced by Kathyrn with much controversy.

    Kathyrn-    was a previous blue-collar exec, family gal, put on team because she was seen as a successful business woman in manufacturing deals without much expertise at all.
    Personal friends with chairman that appointed her. She is seen as a cultural outlier and met with controversy for commanding a culture she isn't a part of.

    The staff       What the employees call themselves, probably to avoid being called a team out of distrust and dislike

        Jeff        Former CEO, network guru but fails to properly manage. His meetings are bland and lifeless without a care about progress. He creates micromanaged agendas, minutes and documents of 
        meetings but fails to produce any results.

        Mikey       Marketing, a brand-building titan with a pedigree. Socially clueless and complains openly about disagreement with her choices. Often causes unneeded drama.

        Martin      Chief technologist, a professional inventor that created original specifications with many accolades. Fails to care about participation and is often distracted. Snarky toward any ignorance and learning.

        JK          Another Jeff, but initialized for less confusion. Sales, more seasoned and older than most staff. Very honest and transparent but is non-committal and flakey. Used to be punctual.

        Carlos      Customer support, position is only for when company grows. Quiet listener, downplays successes, very bored but no issues.

        Jan         Chief Financial Officer, Devil in the details person, miserly as her position should be and prideful about her work. She is not much of a problem.

        Nick        Chief Operating Officer, Most accolades. Forced himself into position as bargaining chip. Wanted to shine, but duties ground to a halt when company plummeted. Not vocal but airs superiority on others.

Kathryn proceeded to make the company uneasy by researching and observing how the staff interacted on the daily, as well as suggesting a sabbatical for all workers to restart things.

The model: The concise practices of the 5 dysfunctions minus the story

	CEO teams- 1) genuine teamwork is elusive
	     	   2) 5 dysfunctions mess them up, duh

	1.Absence of trust- unwillingness to be vulnerable in a group, open about mistakes, weaknesses and trusting job to get done
	2. Fear of conflict - Teams lacking unfiltered, passionate debate of ideas, guarding own ideas
	3. Lack of commitment- No agreements on a direction or decision or single agenda
	4. avoidance of accountability- unable to hold other members responsible/accountable on their job toward goals
	5. inattention to results- individual needs are put above team's goals

How to assess a team- ask members a questionaire about current dysfunctions, in book too

How to fix these:
	Absence of trust:
		confidence that a peers intentions are good to team, no need to baby the team
			Have to be comfortable being vulnerable to others
		To fix: shared experience, built by credibility
			Can be accelerated by discussing personal history, noting each members stengths/weaknesses, personality profile sharing, 360 feedbacks, team-building exercises
				The more judgey the more risky
			!! These only work short-term, long-term is daily practice with others!!
		What leaders do: encourage building of trust, CANNOT chastize or support environment against vulnerability, 
	Fear of conflict- MUST only be ideas/ concepts with passion, attacks and judgements are not good
		How to fix: find conflict productive, make a miner(person who digs up disagreements for setting to rest), Remind conflict is good for the team and to keep engaged, TKI is a possible instrument to determine natural reactions to conflicts to tailor conflict

		What a leader does: allow resolution to occur naturally, modeling appropriate conflict is essential, as well as finding what isn't productive

	Lack of commitment- clear and timely decisions on buy-in, no harboured doubts. Needs to not have desire of concensus and certainty
		
	How to fix: Allow ideas/opinions to be considered, usually allows people to buy-in even if not selected,Ensure that A plan is better than NO plan in the company!
		1. cascading messaging- at the end of meetings, review decisioms and players until on same direction
		2. Deadlines- make honored decision guidelines for less ambiguity and full buy-in
		3. worst case scenerio- discuss contingencies, allows to reduce fears of buy-in
		4. Low risk exposure- force decision making on low risk, low research task
	What a leader does: Comfortable with making wrong choices, push for closure on issues and adherence to schedules.

	Avoidance of accountability: willingness of peers to call eachother on their behaviors/perfomance. 
		How to fix:
			Publification of goals and standards- make transparency for easier calling-out
			simple reviews- forces uninclined to give feedback, must be concise
			Team rewards- reward only team accomplishments to incur peer-pressure

		What a leader should do: empower all workers to call out, but must arbitrate discipline when it fails

	Inattention to results: for the team not yourselves
	
		how to fix: 
				Public declaration of results- transparently declaring success can encourage stopping complacency

				Results-based rewards- carroting can help, but make sure it is not individual success only

	What a leader should do: Set a tone for focus on results, selfless and objective, still give rewards to those who contribute

